Get installed related apps (#27203)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/navigator/getinstalledrelatedapps/index.md

> **Note:** This method must be invoked in a top-level [secure context](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts), that is, not embedded in an {{htmlelement("iframe")}}.

## Description

`getInstalledRelatedApps()` can be used to check installation of Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps on Chrome and Edge for Windows, and Android apps and PWAs on Chrome for Android. It can only be used to check the installation of apps related to the invoking web app. To relate the invoking web app to the native app or PWA, two things must be done:

1. The invoking web app must be specified in the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) member of its [manifest file](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest).
2. The native app or PWA must have its relationship with the invoking app defined.

This is done in a different way depending on the type of app:

- An Android app does this via the [Digital Asset Links system](https://developers.google.com/digital-asset-links/v1/getting-started).
- A Windows UWP app does this via [URI Handlers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/launch-resume/web-to-app-linking).
- A PWA does this via:

>   - A self-defining entry inside its own `related_applications` manifest member in the case of a PWA checking if it is installed on the underlying platform.

Reviewer: FWIW Some people don't like "via". I'm in two minds as to whether the consistency is nice or breaking it up with "using" and "with" might be better.

Author: I've always liked via. Who are these naysayers? ;-)

Author: I think it's OK as-is.

Reviewer: I agree. And now I can't find anything to back up my assertion. So ignore.

---
title: "Navigator: getInstalledRelatedApps() method"
short-title: getInstalledRelatedApps()
slug: Web/API/Navigator/getInstalledRelatedApps

> page-type: web-api-instance-method

Reviewer: Add status: experimental

Author: done

browser-compat: api.Navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps
---

> {{ ApiRef() }}

Reviewer: Should this be whatever sidebar is being used for PWA?

Reviewer 2: `{{APIRef}}` is right - we don't deep-link to reference docs in the PWA sidebar. We have a "Reference" page in the sidebar, but it's just a collection of links to pages in the Web/API reference: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Reference.

Reviewer: Thanks!

> The **`getInstalledRelatedApps()`** method returns a promise that resolves with an array of objects representing any related native apps or [Progressive Web Applications](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) that the user has installed. For example, it can be used to check installation of UWP apps on Chrome and Edge for Windows, and Android apps and PWAs on Chrome for Android. This could be used for content personalization such as removing "install our app" banners from the web app if the native app is already installed.

Reviewer: I'd move everything below the first sentence into a "Description" section to match all our other docs. It's OK to have a paragraph or two, but once the docs go below the fold, they should be in a separate section.

Reviewer: Except for the secure context note, which can be up top too. You should also have the SeeCompat macro (experimental header).

Author: OK, done in next commit

This is done in a different way depending on the type of app:

- An Android app does this via the [Digital Asset Links system](https://developers.google.com/digital-asset-links/v1/getting-started).
- A Windows UWP app does this via [URI Handlers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/launch-resume/web-to-app-linking).
- A PWA does this via:
  - A self-defining entry inside its own `related_applications` manifest member in the case of a PWA checking if it is installed on the underlying platform.
  - An `assetlinks.json` file in its [`/.well-known/`](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5785) directory in the case of an app outside the scope of the PWA checking whether it is installed.

See [Is your app installed? getInstalledRelatedApps() will tell you!](https://web.dev/get-installed-related-apps/) for more details on how to handle each one of these cases.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getInstalledRelatedApps()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{JSxRef("Promise")}} that fulfills with an array of objects representing any installed related apps. Each object can contain the following properties:

- `id` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string representing the ID used to represent the application on the specified platform.

Reviewer: What is the form of this string? Might be nice to have note that it is platform specific (if it is) and perhaps give the web app version.

Author: I've just added "The exact form of the string will vary by platform."

- `platform`

>   - : A string representing the [platform](https://github.com/w3c/manifest/wiki/Platforms) (ecosystem or operating system) the related app is associated with, for example `"webapp"` or `"windows"`.

Reviewer: I'd be tempted to list all of these, and keep your platform link.

Author: OK, done

- `url` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string representing the URL that the related app can be found at.

Reviewer: Perhaps a bit less clunk. Is it accurate?:

```suggestion
  - : A string containing the URL where the related app can be installed.
```

Author: I'm not 100% sure, in all cases. I've updated the text to be a bit less awkward, but I've done it differently.

- `version` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string representing the related app's version.

The related app information must have been previously specified in the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) member of the invoking web app's [manifest file](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest).

### Exceptions

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The method was not invoked in a top-level browsing context.

## Examples

```js
const relatedApps = await navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps();

> console.table(relatedApps);

Author: Sure, I've extended it to include this stuff. It doesn't really show the form of the ID that's expected as such, because all apps will have highly varying ID structures, but it is still useful to show how you might use it.

---
title: "Navigator: getInstalledRelatedApps() method"
short-title: getInstalledRelatedApps()
slug: Web/API/Navigator/getInstalledRelatedApps
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps
---

{{ ApiRef() }}

> The **`getInstalledRelatedApps()`** method returns a promise that resolves with an array of objects representing any related native or [Progressive Web Applications](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) that the user has installed. If can be used to check installation of UWP apps on Chrome and Edge for Windows, and Android apps and PWAs on Chrome for Android. This could be used for content personalization such as removing "install our app" banners from the web app if the native app is already installed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **`getInstalledRelatedApps()`** method returns a promise that resolves with an array of objects representing any related native apps or [Progressive Web Applications](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) that the user has installed. For example, it can be used to check installation of UWP apps on Chrome and Edge for Windows, and Android apps and PWAs on Chrome for Android. This could be used for content personalization such as removing "install our app" banners from the web app if the native app is already installed.
```

> > **Note:** This method must be invoked in a top-level browsing context (for example, not embedded in an {{htmlelement("iframe")}}), which must also be a [secure context](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This method must be invoked in a top-level [secure context](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts), that is, not embedded in an {{htmlelement("iframe")}}.
```

- An Android app does this via the [Digital Asset Links system](https://developers.google.com/digital-asset-links/v1/getting-started).
- A Windows UWP app does this via [URI Handlers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/launch-resume/web-to-app-linking).
- A PWA does this via:
  - A self-defining entry inside its own `related_applications` manifest member in the case of a PWA checking if it is installed on the underlying platform.
  - An `assetlinks.json` file in its [`/.well-known/`](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5785) directory in the case of an app outside the scope of the PWA checking whether it is installed.

See [Is your app installed? getInstalledRelatedApps() will tell you!](https://web.dev/get-installed-related-apps/) for more details on how to handle each one of these cases.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
getInstalledRelatedApps()
```

### Parameters

None.

### Return value

A {{JSxRef("Promise")}} that fulfills with an array of objects representing any installed related apps. Each object can contain the following properties:

- `id` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string representing the ID used to represent the application on the specified platform.
- `platform`

>   - : A string representing the platform (ecosystem or operating system) the related app is associated with, for example `"webapp"` or `"windows"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - : A string representing the [platform](https://github.com/w3c/manifest/wiki/Platforms) (ecosystem or operating system) the related app is associated with, for example `"webapp"` or `"windows"`.
```

- `url` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string representing the URL that the related app can be found at.
- `version` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string representing the related app's version.

The related app information must have been previously specified in the [`related_applications`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications) member of the invoking web app's [manifest file](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest).

### Exceptions

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : The method was not invoked in a top-level browsing context.

## Examples

```js
const relatedApps = await navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps();

> relatedApps.forEach((app) => {
>   console.log(app.id, app.platform, app.url);
> });

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
console.table(relatedApps);
```
